# New tutorials from Flavio

Hi,

this is my first post-bootcamp-launch newsletter issue and I'd like to thank you for your patience. 

I'm back to posting my free tutorials. I resumed posting on the blog on a consistent daily schedule and I've been doing a lot of things and consequently discovering how to do this "lot of things" and writing about them.

I write because I want to remember, for my future self, but also because it's helpful for you. Hopefully.

Feel free to share those posts on social media if you find them interesting. It's always helpful.

 

I think this time the best thing I wrote is how I set up a self-hosted Plausible analytics instance on DigitalOcean. I left Google Analytics for all my sites, now that they force us to use GA4, which I don't like: how to self-host Plausible analytics. I think it's a brilliant platform.

 

Then I have some posts about using Node.js to do various stuff:

Axios crashes the Node.js process when the request fails

Ubuntu how to upgrade Node.js

Optimize images from a Node.js script

Calling the ImageOptim macOS app from a Node.js script

How to execute a shell command using Node.js

How to use .env files in Node.js with import syntax

How to download and save an image using Node.js

 

Some posts about the command line:

Persist aliases and other configuration in Fish Shell

How to add a path to Fish Shell

 

Some posts about playing with macOS to do “things”:

How to add an “Open in VS Code” icon in macOS Finder

How to add an “Open in Terminal” icon in macOS Finder

How to play a sound from the macOS command line

AppleScript by example, episode 1

How to concatenate strings in AppleScript

How to find the bundle ID of a Mac app

Run a Node.js script from your macOS menu bar

 

Some posts about tools:

Vite Tutorial

SWC

Using Vite to create a new React app

How to trigger a Netlify-Vercel-Cloudflare Pages redeploy using a link

Hiding classes in VS Code

 

Some posts about using the Notion API:

Notion API, update the icon emoji of a page

Notion API, update a checkbox value in a database

Notion API, select all pages with a specific emoji

 

Some posts about JavaScript:

JavaScript, how to remove multiple line breaks

How to get retrieve all results of a regex with capturing groups in JS

A regular expression to capture a URL without query string parameters

Getting year-month-date from JS dates

Slugify a string in JavaScript

 

That's it for this week.

Hopefully, you can find something interesting in what I write.

See you!

Flavio

This email was sent to you because you are subscribed to Flavio's Newsletter. If you want to stop receiving my free tutorials, click here to unsubscribe


